there's a heat wave in Los Angeles right
now that's why I'm wearing a pineapple
shirt and you know what that is causing
that heat wave it's the hot topics and
hot calls we're gonna have on hot line
League tonight so excited it's episode
35 I believe I just I just stuttered a
little bit because I I'm forgetting
which episode it is but it's starting
right now and I each stroke actually
it's a heat stroke that is happening
either way it is it's episode 35 I just
checked on YouTube all that starting
right now
hot line League is brought to you by
open by HP and we're back for the start
of the show I was really impressed until
the stutter that was you almost made it
all the way through it yeah it's good
just like had a lisp a moment there all
right whatever
either way hotline link is here joined
by one wonderful person and one not so
wonderful person I'll let you guys
decide who is who
but either way we'll start off with one
of them that's my constant co-host to my
right I think is how it looks on the
panel mark Zimmerman how's it going mark
mark mark mark what I was alluding to
came out on Friday one day
backward with offline TV again back with
offline TV so are they paying you this
time it was never a question of whether
or not I was getting paid so they're not
[Laughter]
good good in exposure correct yes most
other forms of currency oh okay well I
know what scar has been doing lately
anyway well that's good congratulations
on being back at offline TV what was the
story cuz I I was at rift rivals when
this got announced what was the what was
the story you spun the yard you wove do
you see a story to tell
is one that's not a story at all we just
announced that we were back okay
and no no explanation on what went on
behind the scenes not really
all right well you guys know what to
call in about tonight yeah
let's talk about what happened with
Barca obviously leaked centric please
yeah Avila TV is very League centric I
fan only one of them plays league
anymore
really skaara yeah Lily I mean they
still still play a little bit but no one
like it's a primarily leaked streamer
anymore well yeah well that's uh sad
days well either way marks back at
offline TV so he's getting paid finally
we got Kelby I was returning for two
weeks in a row
he took a sabbatical for a while so we
had to bring him back for the second
week mm-hmm how's it going Kelby it's
going very well yeah we're good to be
back not not the not the greatest
weekend but whatever channel II expected
well the rift rivals didn't know well
actually I thought that a lot of
potential prospects had very strong
showings you know so it was good in that
regard unfortunate to see Team Liquid
lose to splice though especially after
Peters tweet really that's a real
feelsbadman situation which we are you
referencing in particular because the
one where he said if you guys have if
you guys have balls you won't put spice
against us tomorrow oh that's rough I
mean he always says that it takes it's a
you know it's it's the respect people
that trash talk beforehand deserve
respect because they're actually risking
something yeah that's true but any risk
that he lost I mean you talked a lot of
to was all over reddit like three
days in a row with their interviews and
then they backed it up so if anyone
deserves the most respect it's the you
guys and I thought that they weren't
going to by the way like I so what you
always should talk no no no not that
they weren't gonna trash or talk
but like okay so I because it's kind of
hard to do interviews on that last day
because of the format I was I was not
there but I was listening to and
watching them from remotely and hundred
thieves or echovox beat
jeetu was so great because like g2 more
than any other team ship tucked all
weekend long and I was like holy
if like g2 losing to echo fox like
snowballs that sent to North America
winning like how hilarious is that gonna
be because I still had I had I have I
still have additional g2 interviews that
are just them continuing the talk
North America I was like I'm a really
session it's gonna look great and now it
looks great for Europe so just hurry up
and released it before we all forget
that we're worse than Europe I mean that
usually takes like a week before yeah we
weren't really trying that hard ignore
the fact that seemed like a it lost
this place yeah they didn't even have
media send during ref rivals so you know
they weren't trying that hard yeah yeah
anyway one is no no it was mean yes joke
I am very curious do you guys think so
noticing a trend here so if you remember
CLG in 2015
beat TSM went to Europe worlds as North
America's number one seed and just like
disappointed and lost in such
embarrassing embarrassing fashion to
Brazil and and other teams then in 2016
TSM disappointed dramatically they were
super hyped people were saying they were
one of the best teams of the tournament
and then they lost and 2017 boy it just
it was so pursue per bad and now we've
got Team Liquid as our representative at
MSI and they embarrass us and then we've
got team liquid at rift rivals losing
the team they shouldn't have what is the
common theme in all of this doublelift
was Peter on the 2015 team yes I was
thinking that as you were going through
but then I was like no I couldn't have
been on the toy yeah 2015 team that was
they beat he assumed at Madison Square
Garden then went on to that was when the
brtt greater than double if thing
started all right next topic so I've
just I'm a little worried cuz cuz it
went from Peter never winning anything
like the SS trophy case meme forever
mmm-hmm - now I'm worried that Peters
teams are just gonna disappoint at
international events and this is it by
the way sometimes it's Peters fault but
not always so I don't know what's going
on there it's kind of like a Benjamin
Button story I think I think well he'll
start winning internationally next year
or something not this year was that no
how's that a Benjamin Button story well
because he was always a great player but
his career was kind of in the pooper for
the first like two or three years yeah
we'll see Landsman Ike
oh yeah the og management never set him
up for six area holding him back that a
fake coach on that team I believe yeah I
think I think you know he started the
low points still still training up
alright that's our thing is he trending
up I feel like he just won spring well
he's continued his he has he ever
achieved
he beat TSM and became the number one
seed in summer 2015
what has he done since then that has
been like a higher achievement just with
Team Liquid that's impossible to
do okay yeah seem like whicker's he's
the only person to win a split on three
different teams right yep yeah smithy is
I just mean he's not like he's not gonna
as groups he's not shown a good
performance at any international event
so I don't know but I mean you could say
that for every ni player right the
because cloud 9 has made it
groups no you're right I just I we feels
conversation made it to the finals of
MSI right we had this conversation on
one of these episodes not too long ago
and for me it's like do you really care
about making it out of groups or do does
it matter that you actually go far in
the tournament like I don't go into
quarters even going to semis is not like
a big step further in my mind like it I
know it's a meme but like really do you
I think if we have two teams advance out
of groups into quarters and one of those
made it into semis they don't feel
really good I like you have to beat
someone good to get there but I think
winning a best-of-five over another team
at Worlds that is respectable is a big
deal because you have you're basically
saying like arguably on the top we're
topping team in the world which is
pretty cool and obviously that's not
quite sure because not all the Korean
teams were there whatever but sure I
don't I don't
it's like h2k being a next Mimi's
nothing but like fanatic and
Origen getting to semis in world in 2015
was a big deal I thought that was really
cool uh yeah I just um know when when
use I think misfits even last year that
I was did did a super good job but the
thing that I'm getting at is like are
you really a contender to win is where I
would put like stake in there being a
difference between most I don't think
you need to be a contender to win but
like think about this way and it gets
the groups because they are directly
seated in yeah like that is not an
accomplishment right has built a system
that allows three teams from North
America to go to you're not now you're
not proving that you are a good enough
team they're not finishing last in the
group's every time though for sure
usually they're like the the bubble team
outright usually
yes a good mark I was just getting out
of groups is not like oh my god
na yeah but it's a fee it's a feels good
man and then if you can take a
quarterfinal match off like a
respectable Korean Chinese or European
team that's a pretty feels good
right just haven't done that yeah but
I'm just saying I feel like it only
feels good man because we've done so
terribly not because it's actually like
a an accomplishment yeah I would still
say I think any team that can get out of
a competitive group at least it is a
good team they're better yeah certainly
better than what we've done yeah anyway
they're the wild-card reasons
definitively we are not a wild car
version if we get out of groups let's
let's move on let's open up the lines
I'll be talking about rift rivals what
else is there to talk about what I think
we need to start giving people you know
that are prompts some bullet points you
know so what there is to talk about I
mean we can talk about the like what
Levi looks like what hooni looks like
what TL looked like in terms of like
what that means domestically we can talk
about Europe and how much this on
us you know it was four to five in the
group stage play you know one thing I
want to talk about is all there was a
strange amount an unusual amount for an
international event of people talking
about what's holding back North America
from the very first day every oh maybe
maybe earlier on but after - every time
after na Busters out there's like what's
wrong with it
yeah but normally it's like it just
becomes like oh they trying to
comprehend CK too much but like for me
it was interesting because for the first
time there were a lot of European
players on g2 in fnatic to the extent
where I'm like they must be having these
conversations talking about like the
ping of the ping that these guys have to
play solo qo and the mentality in
soloqueue
some of the players were suggesting that
there's just like life is too good
living in LA and there are too many like
fun interesting things to do and at one
point in time somebody was like yeah
there's pretty girls you know maybe
that's part of it like it's I think it's
an interesting conversations because it
popped
so many so frequently another thing was
uh I did a 30 minute long interview with
wreckless where I was he he literally
just feels as though you should not if
you can play something that isn't a
marksman in the bot lane you should play
it right like he said there's like ten
different champions that are either
tanks or or bruisers or mages that are
like better options and so he he was the
one that benched himself saying look
nothing I can do can provide as much
value to this team is whipple right now
because none of my champions are as good
as something that he could play so I
think that's an interesting conversation
to have as well yeah I agree so if you
want to talk about any of those things
that Travis just talked about go to the
discord link that I'm spamming in chat
record OGG slash Travis you could do
that too once you're there you're gonna
want to join plug calls or Club calls
too or sub calls if your sub one of
those voice channels and then in the
hashtag club topics or sub topics go
ahead and post what it is that you want
to talk about and specifically also what
your opinion on it is we're always
looking for people to have strong
opinions anyways once we find one that
we like we'll pull you into the
waiting-room will do a quick voice check
and then we'll go from there
yeah yep and uh I think I don't know I'm
just interested to see I wanna one thing
that came out of rift rivals as well as
like I am worried that North America is
too stubborn like they don't want to
play things that aren't ad carry's so
they're just not like we haven't played
heimerdinger alright I'll I'll talk
about this one one of the calls come in
and talk about it like I was saying this
week one don't you guys remember
I was like holy we're not funneling
and the rest of the world is funneling
or at least trying it and like we're
just not we didn't have a single funnel
in the first week I'm pretty sure yeah
or we might have had one like one
mordekaiser game yeah you could see it
coming from a mile away yeah I I'm kind
of Concerned alright mark is grabbing
some people for into the waiting room I
am gonna shout out a bunch of people
came in and supported the show last not
least well by the way yet did you mark
did you mention the sub chat thing
briefly but I'm sure you do yeah if you
are a sub you don't you don't have like
a priority over anybody but you do have
a bit of a higher chance of getting
picked because it gives you access to
the sub topics channel if you sync with
discord and takes a little bit sometimes
the sink you're gonna be your question
in there which gives you it moves a
little slower because obviously there's
less subs and plebs so you can compare
your topic in there and maybe catch it
anyway back to just shouting out a
couple people thank you to last not
least koobs gifted us up to a RJ let's
poo groups gifted to Travis gaffers my
hero little coterie subbed I'm writing
the Travis train kappapride hrubes
gifted substant night pop groups gifted
204 pony XO cribs donated $100 and said
love you Travis lend kube's to get to
this up to so many things my dog stinks
sent a thousand bits a little cash gift
of sub2 GG lamps groups gifted to
Mardock vs. herbs gifted to tylo named
sikri subbed for 11 months and says I
love your content Travis sotl Kelby
groups has gifted it to sergeant Seuss
and mark if you want to go grab anybody
you're pulling so many people so quickly
please go groups gifted to Clarke skirt
a little couch gifted to the
reincarnation of juju last not least
give to this up to qw e XE to coops
gifted sub to Leonardo Liva Leonard
Olivia I don't know anyway it's really
nice to have somebody there's more
people that we got hook on the show
how's it going hook good its how how
yeah you've been on the show before you
corrected me before but I it's okay
yeah where you calling from I'm calling
from Salt Lake City Utah that's right
that's right how is Salt Lake City Utah
that's hot we got some rain come in but
very little yeah just cloudy yeah well
what happens whatever
hot what do you want to talk about my
show today so I just want to talk about
rich rivals of course I thought LC k l
PL l my LMS were lot more interesting
compared to na /eu and they need to
update na and EU to make it more
relevant
I just think more teams a better venue
admit it felt more intense kind of etc
so sorry your take is is that it was
just disappointing yeah I thought that
na EU was a little more kind of a clown
fest compared to the 10 city of
basically LC k versus LP o but you like
sorry so it sounds like you're
disappointing like the venue like is it
the presentation that you're
disappointed no what right is getting
with it or is it the team's just
disappointing it felt like the LC capers
LPL was just a lot more what's the word
serious serious yeah just more serious
yeah and do they view a neighbor for at
the beginning of there's I didn't see it
didn't look like they did but I actually
liked the idea of the whole entire a
Bert but that's that's not curious I
know but let's just take a hundred fees
for example of how they did their team
besides the whole entire medius thing
they decided green brandini and Bernie
by and to me that just didn't seem like
oh we're in here to actually compete
with EU they just want to give their two
players some maybe international time
right and if you're a hundred sorry can
I interrupt real quick
yeah go ahead if you're a hundred T
which you have done things differently I
probably would have I probably would
have retreated this a little more
seriously or I wish things were taking
more seriously with this you versus na
why why would you have taken things more
seriously if you are a hunter T because
you're a new engine ization and you want
to show that this your first showing an
international stage mm-hmm and you don't
want to go I think the only one like one
two games and to me that's not
impressive like your had this fiasco of
meteos now you're showing your fans hey
we can't really take an international
competition too seriously
well what would you
I mean without going as far back as
undoing the medius trade because in
terms of timing the media astray was at
the right time because you don't have to
go and play in the LCS at least you have
a little more downtime to try and
integrate it but what what would you
have done because they were forced to
submit their roster before the trade
happens so they could not end up doing
on to media onto some day because the
only gentleman that they would've had on
the roster was Levi so I they could have
Erskine or like I'm used to got a
ministry you and put linsanity in but I
don't think that's any better yeah I get
that part it well I try not to bleed
into the media's conversation but
because media has revealed that video
yeah I mean we're talking 102 so it's
fun yeah so we he said that they came up
to him and said Levi and brandini r1b
into riff rifles and that CAI sparked at
the whole entire him looking for a new
team mhm and I think they should have
not even done that I think they should
have said meteos some day you're going
to rip fra bulls that's that yeah I
let's get this team with more
international competition against EU
here because we're facing the two best
et tu teams as splice but that's another
rip TL but I understand where you're
coming from at the same time I can see
it from the perspective of and reckless
talked about this in your interview
Travis that I liked which is what years
at do we stop calling him reckless in
season three reckless sorry he talked
about this in your interview where
really the value for the event is not in
the on stage matches but in the
scrimmages that they're getting so like
if you're a hunter teen you don't have
anything to gain from a rift rivals
performance that is like good for your
region or good for your team and they
want to take the extra time to try this
lineup then because they think it will
bear more fruit in potentially their
results for the rest of the summer split
then that's a really safe environment to
practice against you know really good
competition better competition than what
you would get locally but then they say
that they're going to go
onda next week even before rift rivals
started then what then why aren't then
why are they doing it then and that
that's why I'm like even more confused
about the small tower thing like mark
you were saying something about the
submission deadlines right right so you
have to submit a roster and then they
submit it and you can only bring one sub
additionally so you submit the levi's
brandini one and then you can't put I
mean you could theoretically put on des
as your sub most likely but what is that
gonna do for you you're not gonna run
brandini and on des yeah but but
hypothetically this this using this
roster for if rivals is what sparked the
whole media situation right so they were
already planning to use this roster
going into revivals regardless of if
media stayed along I'm not maybe but
I've also heard from a lot of other team
mauka 100 thieves have been shipping
medias around for a while so I don't
really buy that which maybe is why I
have a harder time at like seeing it
that way like oh man they announced this
and then that was the spark because I
had heard for a long time that like
hundreds was looking to make some moves
so is there there is the hypothetical
situation then that even before 100
thieves goes to medias and says we were
planning to use this lineup that even if
he had not already said like hey I want
to talk to other teams that they were
totally fine with that possibility
because they'd been shipping him around
yeah I think so I think it was the kind
of thing where they've been trying to
find a way to get Levi's some playing
time with the main team for a while
gotcha so okay let's move on from Hunter
t though because it's just one example
right so rare what else what else was
disappointing to hook oh okay
I think mostly if it meant then you like
I saw the last day of the LC k versus
LPL and I was in a big stage and
everything like that that was on Stadium
looks like and it looked a very more
epic it looked better I was more excited
to actually watch these games and shifts
I a lot of the audience was empty at
times like I think because it was a
holiday weekend Anime Expo was happening
like I think it was just hard for them
to fill it out it also is happening on
three
say Friday by the way which are hard
days to to fill out so trouble filling
out I thought they look like there's a
decent amount of people so I think they
sold out but when I'd walk in oftentimes
you would see like you know that kind of
block below the caster desk like that
area will be empty maybe they sold less
like maybe they intentionally thought
they were gonna have like more like
support staff or somebody and they
reserved more seating for that or
something I don't know but I I would not
be surprised if they had it would have
had a hard time selling out like a much
bigger arena because it's just at a
weird time it's just a weird time to
throw the event the last systems of it
how about for the last day then we get a
little bit better venue for somewhere in
LA or yeah I think it's hard from a
logistics perspective because they a lot
of people don't know this but like any
time like so after the semi-finals of
summer playoffs what will happen is like
that show ends and there are like two
white trucks in the parking lot at riot
and they take all that gear and start
shoving it up into these trucks to bring
it up to Santa Oakland so they they will
it's really hard I think logistically to
do something in the LCS studio and then
the very next day do it someplace else
I actually don't like it's interesting I
am like the guy who hates on venues
being and shitty locations I actually
think that rift rivals is the perfect
thing to do in a studio because it's
like in the middle of the split it
doesn't count for anything it's a
smaller amount of teams like it's just
not as big of a deal I don't mind it
being in a smaller studio unless like it
really feels like like I think Korean
and Chinese teams specifically take this
event away more importantly than North
American Europe and I don't know how to
fix that but I actually think there's
just more pride on the line for them
than it is for just pride there's actual
stakes on the line between who's the
best region like like we can't pretend
that that's what we're fighting we're
fighting the best in the west they're
fighting over legitimately who's the
best region so like China and Korea take
it super see
for that reason plus Chinese fans
there's a lot more of them and they're a
lot crazier so like of course their
stadium can be bigger like there's just
a bigger demand for that event yeah and
I think like that's part of the reason
it has that feeling of seriousness its
gravity to it because one there is more
on the line by these guys consistently
having the best to international results
and especially recently with China
getting the best of lck recently that
really is like something that they're
fighting over and even then you could
argue like less Katy shouldn't be there
just like splice shouldn't be the rescue
tease like what the 7th best Korean team
or something right now yeah they're
pretty low right now yeah so I think I
think it suffers from some of the same
problems as the are version it's just
that China and Korea being who they are
is what makes up for it yeah yeah well
ok post another solution then sure no
more well but more teams yeah there's a
ball a slow or wind out the conversation
but so you want to have more teams yeah
is that good fix maybe like I don't know
think how many more games is gonna fix
it it just means that you have to do a
fourth day I don't think we'd have more
teams and keep it three days and I think
if you make it anything longer than
three days it's really a challenge for
these teams especially the ones that are
traveling that's true I wouldn't mind
and it would have helped with us though
it would help with Europe and in lck I
wouldn't mind just doing the finalists
and then the highest-rated team in
summer who is not one of those two so
you don't get the SK T's and the splices
and people who like had a good playoff
run but they're actually not that great
or something like that like I think that
would that would make me a lot happier
cuz like I would have loved to have seen
misfits there I would love to have just
like been absolutely dominated and not
have what was it four of our six wins
that we got at the event come from
splice or whatever it was maybe yeah 3
over 5
yeah yeah yeah so like you know I I
wouldn't mind that
yeah I asked as I say how we do like is
a really extreme just all playoff teams
from each region six teams is that too
much where am I going too crazy at that
idea I think like I think that's way to
that cost the cost much yeah well one
likes schedule
and planning all that's difficult to fit
into a week and not needing two weeks to
do it as well as like the actual
logistical burden of okay six teams
coming over and see ya here all wind out
the conversation by saying this and I'm
probably gonna do a separate video about
it so I won't spend too much time on it
I think rift rivals is the perfect event
to replace all stars I think all stars
has been trying to find an identity for
years and it's been really difficult for
a riot to figure that out I think it's
time for them to just give up on all
stars and I think all the problems with
rift rivals you you gain what what isn't
fun I think by the way is watching Korea
win worlds and then like watching Korea
win all stars like a month later I
didn't I don't think that the like team
fire team ice thing was ever really good
I think
rift rivals has a lot of problems they
tend to be around scheduling breaking
the summer split out for that type of
thing like it's just a difficult time to
do this event and I think that you solve
a lot of that and by the way you could
make it six teams you could make it five
teams you can make it more teams by
because you could just do it in the
middle of December and it's way easier
and the logistics are way easier because
you can still just make it na ver see
you I just think I think all-stars is an
event that needs to be put out of its
misery
I think this I doubt that it's gonna be
better this year I bet you it'll just be
at the end of last year I was like why
are they still doing all-stars I bet you
it's not gonna fix for this year and I
think putting rift rivals there instead
would be way better yeah I totally agree
that that actually just Peaks up my
interest of having that event during
December I went that just sounds much
better compared to having all-stars yep
hey thank you so much a hook for the
call thank you how how how all right
mark is grabbing the next person some
more shout outs by the way unless the
okay we're good thank you so much to
skilar v to arrow tempest certainly not
Colby Brando naeun and Shepard Fairey
subbing he says it's five months and
Kelby is the guest how to
pointing all right Mattias is on the
show Mattias where you come from
hi from what Amala Guatemala are you in
a game of League of Legends right now no
oh no no it's okay it just says that
your this court seems to think you're in
an hour and two long game you're what
the client the client is open okay this
court hasn't caught up to the fact that
the game is over
obviously it's this thing where you try
and like read what people are doing
always back fun
Matthias what do you want to talk about
on the show today I really enjoy with
being results and short story was a
refund tournament all the games were fun
tour some cool moments like splice being
in liquid but also seeing like g2 in the
first game like use funnel and get
literally crush my echo fox was very fun
because they have been very good at LCS
and like no one seems to be able to beat
them when they play fun also seeing them
loose against but seen them blue sweet
that's ready was pretty fun and it's a
better like I agree with you I think
it's a bear tournament and costars it
was I enjoy it more even though I do
like seeing a players and Western
players interact I wasn't mind seen that
tournament
Peter place yeah okay so was that was
that are is your topic and I just
predicted it yeah oops okay well what I
will say on on his point though is that
seeing like that crossover between B
Erickson and faker when they played like
the two keyboard thing was really cool
and if all stars dies and gets replaced
by rift rivals I would hopefully want to
see some kind of like some fun thing
that players like sounds like more fun
events during words maybe like between I
think worlds you can't do any
fun events world has got to be this is
the most serious thing to ever happen
all of you sports but I think that to be
to did that I think that a roof did it
and I think you can add more fun to rift
rivals like rift rivals is starting
talking one of the players yeah but I'm
not saying fun traps I'm saying like the
market crossover like EU and na is
already a pretty close market but like
having Korean players who can speak
English well or whatever like interact
with North American players and like
that kind of like thing you would lose
if all-stars disappeared maybe you can
bring a couple celebrities over if
they're not busy in their own what about
at MSI what if MSI had like a little fun
portion yeah I just don't like mixing
fun was serious I think that was one
problem rift drivers had was that one of
the players was telling me like they
didn't take it seriously as seriously
once they found out that there was a
neighbor of happening and like a 2v2
tournament because it that's that's like
that implies that it's not as serious of
an event this is what they seem to
always do with all-stars where they like
makes the two things where they're like
it's serious but it's not and then you
end up with a squared identity crisis
like is this a thing to show peak
performance or not personally I like the
icebox inspired version of the freezer
semi-heated is popular but I used to
like that more than the serious being
hybrid they did last year also something
to add up to my original point
I like last year you got crushed by a
knife and then the region as a whole
became way better because will they
learn how to play around made and they
use the knowledge they gained in reef
rivals to do perform better worse and I
hope na does the same thing this year
hey I agree with that I hope that this
is like a wake-up call for North America
because when we kind of hinted at this
earlier mark like the the fact that
there were a lot of pics and a lot of
strategies that na has seen Europe doing
and has just either been too lazy or too
skeptical of or whatever to do has is
really disappointing like there was a
moment where I don't know if
got this on camera or not but I was
getting dinner with wreckless and perks
and Peter and I recorded a bunch of it
and there was a moment where Peter and
perks were both talking about how in the
g2 Team Liquid game they they both
thought they had one draft and they
thought both of them thought the other
one was crazy for thinking that they had
one draft right like oh we got these
champions like of course he one draft
and and it was very funny because I
think you know they were talking about
columns and how you could imagine if you
play both those columns next to each
other both of them are like oh these
guys are so stupid they picked this into
art this other team was like these guys
are so stupid they picked it into this
totally anonymous encounter so I think
probably g2 was correct um but I think
things like heimerdinger and stuff like
that that it feels like North America
just has refused to play I hope that
it's like a shock for them and that they
have to go out there and actually try
this stuff and by the way if that if
Team Liquid equifax 100 teams like are
forced to learn this stuff by fire a
trial and Fire I hope that they bring it
via scrims and elsewhere to the other
North American teams yeah I mean you got
dicked last year and roof rivals and
learned a lot hopefully this is our turn
take to get dicked and learn i will say
like it's a little bit more scary like
like you said it's been going off for
weeks it was just like well we're not
funneling and the rest of the world is
funneling this doesn't look good echovox
funneled week two with a weird funnel
yeah then they put me week three as well
yeah yeah but I'm saying like it took us
forever to catch on like they didn't run
a funnel and we ran like two substandard
bot lanes week one for non-standard bot
lanes you know like yeah it was it was
just like horrible adaptation on our
side you can see it coming and it makes
it really hard and draft because
everyone's like well why don't they just
be on Homer and aatrox and it's like
well cuz then you're leaving Zoe and
Nocturne up like the things that are
everyone knows it's broken on this patch
like Nocturne eyes like at 80 70 percent
win rate some crazy it's like
you really like I mean you just
on red side in that draft because you
have to be on all the broken stuff
because you don't play any of it yeah I
don't know
yeah I was worried because I'm just I'm
worried a little bit for North American
I think Peters like a great example of
this like reckless is convinced that
Peter can get away with playing these
ADCs all the time in North America cuz
he just doesn't have real competition
and if that's the case we have reckless
callers coming at Wharton okay okay
sorry
well I needed to go on a tangent with
this call just because we talked about
the whole store thing or a little bit
already but I don't know Kelly what are
your thoughts on the whole star rift
rival swap uh the only concern that I
have about it is that in the time window
like it might be difficult to get all
those teams together and playing and
like I don't know what the quality of
matches are like because hypothetically
right this is probably right in the time
period where all these new teams are
like they haven't even played scrims
together if you if if like you know
they've just made roster changes except
for you know I don't know the team's who
got first last split or whatever so it
could be interesting in that regard that
it's like a new showing of all these
rosters if you can get the teams on
board for timing it's good it also kind
of just like cuts the offseason even
shorter potentially right yeah but
otherwise yeah I agree and I think it's
I think what you would do is just elect
three captains
maybe fans code for them I don't know
and then they just draft the players
okay so it's not like yeah it's a
different version of it's not like with
rivals in all-stars it's like a
different version over else okay yeah I
think having the real teams play is
pretty important if you're trying to
make it up like a people want to watch I
mean people love watching the teams like
a doublelift aphromoo reunion or a
double if by oh I don't like that
stuff but they also really like being
able to say our EU teams beat your na
teams not like your hypothetical I mean
it solves your splice problem though
mark where that's your you well does it
because people would probably just
up they're like I don't think there's a
way to have the best teams play ranked
rivals yeah it's an off season so it's
not like much bragging rights I feel
like yeah this is the middle the nice
thing is that this honestly like from an
NAU perspective neither of us are gonna
win worlds anytime soon and so this is
like the savory dessert you know like
this is the consolation prize right like
oh you're out worlds but look our
region's better or so you know like it's
a fun it's a good it's a good way to end
the year cuz we're definitely not ending
it on a good note with worlds it's a
third place match or like a fourth or
fifth place match region wise yeah I
just I don't think it should be
happening in the middle of summer split
and I don't think that there is a better
time for it to happen like you can't do
it before worlds you can't do it before
the start of the split you can't do it
like after msi ordering a messiah like
it's just like I think offseason is the
best way and I'm just ready to put all
stars out of this misery yeah I mean
it's just hard to give a good reason for
the fourth and fifth best regions to
play or third and fourth or whatever you
want to put us s laughs that's the real
issues it's hard to find a compelling
reason and time for us to play that
doesn't get in the way of serious
competitions yeah yeah hey thank you so
much for your call we appreciate Mattias
all the way from Guatemala yeah have a
good one
you owe
shoutout to soldiers quarter you thanks
man all right really quick want to do a
quick little shout-out conversation
about our sponsor for the show almond by
HP you guys may have heard of them they
sponsored they do a lot of cool stuff
this is an omen by HP desktop that is
behind me we're broadcasting this off an
omen by HP computer I'm looking at a
monitor on by HP monitor like it's just
they power a lot of the stuff that we do
they power this show they also support a
lot of the other folks in eSports
everything outside of Lea legends got
things like overwatch League they do
they've done pub G events they did a
fortnight or they have assisted with a
fortnight event and during e3 and it's
just kind of cool to see this
that they've given the eSports community
over the years and by the way they
helped out a lot with this show and it's
really great to see the support that
they they give we I think we're getting
close enough I have a meeting tomorrow
to tease that to figure out what the
promotion strategy is but coming out
with a video should be in July pretty
cool video that I did with them and um
piyo frost so I'm really excited for
that I think they they spend a lot of
time trying to figure out how to create
something cool I should be able to give
you guys more information in the future
but I do want to teach you guys about
that and get pretty hype about it
because I think it's going to be really
neat it's one of the cooler things that
I've worked on so hopefully next week I
should be able to give you some more
information but it's really cool either
way I do love it you guys have been
shouting out omen by HP on the show
you've been tweeting at them if you're
watching the vaad on youtube there's a
link in the description you can go
follow them on twitter i will pit their
twitter and the chat right now
so that you guys can go check them out
and by the way just showing that you
appreciate them whenever their support
some of you guys have purchased owned by
HP computers and like tweeted that out
letting them know that it's it's because
of the show and their support of me
that is super appreciated so again cool
content that works with them appreciate
all the work that they've been doing in
esports they've got some cool new
accessories hitting right now you can
check that stuff out over on their their
site on their Twitter so thank you so
much Ellen HP if you're supportive
hotline League let's move on to the next
caller a couple of shout outs by the way
by the way did you guys know that was a
great shout out by the way Travis oh
thank you I would love to have you to
come to a media training with some of
the professionals I work with yeah let's
do it
see we'll flag is on the show right now
who's playing he's playing a game but I
don't know if I want to read
it's a Joss ting game see I put that on
there just for you is that it's if you
hover over his name it says he's playing
general genital jousting oh nice
actually one of the greatest stories in
video games or so I'm told I just love
that like I was complaining about Travis
doing this gag and you just took it up
to the next level
I got you Mike thanks for being a twitch
sub by the way a sable flag where are
you calling from
I'm calling from Orlando Florida Orlando
Florida what do you want to talk about
on the show tonight I just wanted to
bring up the date of the meta obviously
crit ad carries are not really you know
featured highly um and they're pretty
much just they can't do anything or
early enough in the game to be relevant
and we have things like Heimerdinger and
you know all these other roles that do a
lot more like a utility wise like you
have Zooey with her like in st. long
range like Cece and then you've got
heimerdinger just can perma push Elaine
sure free so you got these other options
and so create ad carry's don't really
bring anything to the table anymore
because of the way itemization works so
you get like situations where like say
ah heimerdinger just one shots a
traditional ad carry that's ahead in
lane sure so they're not viable but is
that is that your main point is that you
don't like it basically I just that
honestly has always been one of my
favorite things about watching the game
is watching ad carries and I think that
it would be great if this meta could
just include them I really enjoy seeing
like the non-standard stuff in in lanes
and the bot lane but i just-i seeing
like the traditional like create he
carries completely not in the picture
just it really brings League down for me
sure okay so you would like to see ad
carry's come back mark how non-viable
are credited carries right now they are
not very viable or competitive play you
can pretty much play them in soloqueue
if you're because most people aren't
playing other shits like I don't think
most people are leaning against
you in soloqueue right now I mean the
rates of this stuff is going up
obviously but like the most part you can
play them just not very good but I mean
you still have marksmen being played
like you have a peak eisah you have
Azrael you have Varis which a lot of
people think is actually decent now
after the latest rounds of buffs you
have some Zaya rekon being played and
stuff like they still see play sometimes
it's through fondling sometimes it's not
but yeah i think i understand that quick
marksman currently are not very good is
it
is it okay I'm Calvillo loop you in on
this too is it okay if crit marksman
just aren't viable because we we see
this all the time in other lanes right
there's times where like assassins are a
great example that like everyone loves
assassins but historically like the
times where assassins have been viable
no matter usually very small windows of
time and then they like get rid of them
or whatever because I think it's just a
struggle for them to figure out how to
balance them or make them viable but is
it okay to just have credit ATC's out
and then like rotate them back in like
it's a we love options I don't know
Kelby so this was another thing I was
gonna ask about I had plan to ask about
on the show and watching your interview
is that a band now but now I'm going
back and forth on which way to pronounce
it because you got in my head early very
reckless yeah reckless I was talking
about like how he anticipated that they
would change the balance so that they
would like come back in and riot would
fix it or whatever but it seems that
like there's either unclear
communication from riot or poor
misunderstanding on fanatics part about
what lake was intended to be happening
here so I was looking for some clarity
for you guys is like is this like an
intentional medicine that's riot made
away from this okay so they are they're
very clearly like saying like we don't
want crit ad carry's to really not hard
they don't want that what they vote with
like this is they want everything to be
viable they want everything to be
okay they're just not accomplishing it
yet at the professional level that we've
seen because the current consensus is
that credit 'is obviously are not like
yeah thing yeah they're not the thing
and obviously any time like you're
trying to break open like this mold
right it's not gonna be perfect
no yeah I think it's been like well
relatively within like the realm of
acceptability it's still not quite there
yet but if you looked at all of Reich's
messaging publicly like as these changes
start coming up there were a couple
things times that they said like we want
to make it so that marksmen are not a
default in the bot lane not that they're
not right pic crit but that like you
don't have to have a marksman every
single game and they had basically said
that so like if if reckless was hoping
that they would just fix it then like he
or his coaching staff was probably not
paying enough attention to not just the
actual changes but like riot on the
message boards yeah I mean like I really
appreciate what they're going for
because I think that's the ideal state
of the game right for a competitive
balance is that any champion any role or
not any role but any champion is like
viable through some role in the game
that that's it's unattainable balance
like no game has accomplished that or or
probably can ever seek to accomplish
that but I appreciate that they want
there to be other things than just like
very standard you know credits crit ad
sees in the bot lane
however like competitive right now
essentially every team currently employs
one of these people who is specifically
designed just to play this role and is
in the reckless situation where like oh
this is a hard pivot and some
people are doing a better job with it
than others I noticed that Uzi I was
playing like eight rocks but he also
played lissandra you know in the final
so like I don't know but yeah if it
doesn't get figured out that's something
that's been a part of the game for such
a long time and I've I'm in the same
boat as you
or same boat as you sable flag where I
personally enjoyed a lot of ATC moments
and hype games and I hope that they
aren't like you know that it is resolved
that they do swing it back
but and obviously reckless does too but
we'll see how long that actually takes
for them to have it be getting picked
frequently and getting competitive and
part of me thinks that it won't happen
just because like for the same reason
they're like man whenever assassins are
viable games end pretty fast I
feel like ma'am
whenever crit marksmen are viable the
game usually goes three items because
that's what they're playing for and so
like if they're not punishable enough in
Lane then people will pick them and not
get punished in Lane and then they'll
stall the game out until they hit their
item break points and then they're
stronger and then everyone goes back to
the paid marksman or whatever seemed
like I could see a world like you you
were saying that like no one's ever
balanced it perfectly they might just be
the latest case of that right do you
think that it has to inherently be a
case where like you have to see the same
scaling curve for create ad carry's that
we've historically seen or like are you
because a one way that you could
hypothetically remedy that although it
would be a substantial change is like
you smooth the powerleveling so like
they are having a more of an impact in
laning phase and throughout all points
of the game as opposed to you know
playing for your three item timing or
something and then your counter play
options they're probably are more about
matchups and specific like champions
into certain you know ATS and stuff like
that it's hard to say only because I
think traditional crit building marksmen
are not the most expressive champion
kits in the game right all of them
boiled down to the same thing yeah
largely like wow Caitlyn's really good
because your range is the
longest so if he needs two items to
become viable then like there you go
she's broken yeah like if she needs
three then there you go she's
useless yeah
but at the same point like that's
because like her ability scaling like is
just like completely worthless in
contrast later in the game right like if
Q actually did damage if not actually
did something if her alt actually did
something maybe that changes this is
like completely I'm Way out of my depth
of field right now as far as like you
know balancing and stuff but
I'm just I'm trying to you know think of
potential ideas they're like if you
ladies scaling to her like more ad
scaling to her stuff I don't know I
think it's possible just because we've
seen in the past like them kind of do
large class reworks in a sense where
they like we're gonna rework how
assassins work and all they're not
like slow passes that build up to
a big burst of damage we're gonna change
how supports work and then all supports
got gold scaling and utility we're like
they sped up more the slow was longer or
something I feel like maybe in order for
credit market to be viable in a meta
where everything else is viable and they
don't crowd everything out of the bot
lane they might need some level of
rework like that where they take a hard
look at crit scaling marks gonna be like
what do we need to give them to compete
in the early game but still be like
late-game threats or some I don't know
it's yeah be hard yeah it's not an N via
bhishen to be in certainly yeah that's
really strange is uh I know scar I was
talking about it on stream awhile back
really the only role that has any like
made-up problems is like the marksman
role at the moment like they don't have
CDR they don't have mana regen like the
mages like witches should be gated by me
and they're like you should have to play
around oh how much mana do I have I'm a
mage I cast spells but like the person
who's sitting there auto attacking the
entire time they're the ones who have
the mana problems and I think that's
kind of strange it's not that I think
they have well so I think scars right
they have made of problems but it's
because none of their items give them
mana right whereas like mages would have
mana problems too if not every single
first item you built didn't give
you mana right so so like may just would
have the same problem but the
atomization isn't there for marksmen the
only item that gives mana for them is
like this other and they're not
balanced like as I'm saying we're like
it would take a full class rework I
think it's kind of like cuz if you just
give them a strong mana item then it's
like well that's probably just
busted on Lucian or like someone else
who spams abilities you have to be
pretty close essence reaver is not
really an option for like most champions
you know
the only man a thing so that was my man
they're not good mana items but like
most marksmen are designed with the fact
that they're not gonna be getting mana
right yeah you can touch other items
than or other values than just items -
yeah exactly so you like thank you so
much for calling in really appreciate
the crap just one last thing I would
like to shout out the premier total war
streamer fan Ron Jenkins yes Jenkins is
the best streaming even though he's
playing Fallout 4 right now yeah I got
soup Fenn Ron and Kelby got me super
into total war I would play in a ton of
total war everyone in my life knows that
I've just I just played total war now
and fan Ron no longer streams total war
so I can't like it Rick eight years of
like I don't want Thank You say he's
like support the streamer I do support
the streamer I show up in his twitch and
demand a gift at sub and somebody
inevitably gives it to me I'm making
this guy good money thanks tables like
yeah thanks I just on this topic
Emily Rand was kind enough to share a
dock with like only marksman games from
8-11 and 812 so China is at 42% only
marksmen lanes if I'm reading this right
and hopefully I am firmness so look you
for a competitive place okay yeah we've
got Lincoln that twitch at by the way
nice hello yeah boy Austin should call
into the show anyway sorry yes
an Austin on here shiny ass like 40
percent Korea's like 25 percent I don't
see them for EU and I don't see it for
na and Taiwan is at 18% or something
yeah well China is the best region so it
looks like Korea is up well so
just depends on like what your player
base is get it anyways we'll probably
touch on that I think I have sown it
yeah
reckless like is getting by the
meta 20 I think cool well really quickly
I want to say I'm about to read off some
subs by the way if you are watching this
right now just do me a favor hover your
cursor over my stream there's a very
good chance that if you have an amazon
prime sub it'll show you now i installed
an add-on that this shows you when your
twitch crimes sub is up if you hover
over my stream and it's an extension or
whatever should be able to see it if you
see it just press that button and send
it over to me
alright a couple of people while we get
the next caller
we got flaxen who's reset for two months
and Peggy Rhema 39 a cloud list
Tom Helios anime girls for Christmas
hungry lazy panda y'know with volt
control defeat on the show and the
Blowfish and the Blowfish and the flow
fishes here we were you calling from and
the Blowfish filled up so smooths with
your answer you got mark over here
squealing and then we got used I'm here
from you gotta keep it calm sometimes
yeah in this crazy meta you gotta keep
it calm cool what do you what do you
want to talk about right now I mean I
mean we've kind of been touching on it
all night here at the meta is kind of a
mess and it's having some real-world
consequences you Travis sat down did a
nice interview the other day with the
reckless saw the vid real good stuff but
essentially like you can tell in that
interview he's like actually worried
about his job
yeah right it took his eye off of this
overnight overnight he's like not as
valuable and you could easily say at MSI
one of the best performing Western
players am I out of pocket by saying
that historically absolutely not very
true statement so and and you mentioned
it something I don't know if it was
reckless that said it where
like doublelift can only effectively
play this ADC meta just because he's
just naturally a better player yeah
reckless reckless is thisis dad I read I
wholly believe that that's that seems a
hundred percent true to me I mean I mean
I'm not gonna lie cloud9 playing Keith's
bench and sneaky kind of like what kind
of ADC is really gonna pop up I mean how
do how do you how does doublelift stay
relevant even you know if they continue
on this trend so so your major statement
is just concerned about sort of what
this means for abc's I mean especially
if like some of these players are like
signed into multi-year contracts and if
I can't remember I think it was on the
dive they're talking about like bruiser
kill lanes bottom of Lake j4 pantheon
like you're not gonna get double if
playing j4 Pantheon double lifts all
they play in j4 candy yeah maybe they
should you know as far as like maybe
maybe double if can do it but is is
Keith gonna do it is is Alltech gonna do
it it sounds like you just don't have
faith in the North American a DC's
you're like these guys are gonna start
playing something new and original I
don't say that so we look for
replacements in scouting arounds notable
scouting ground potentials from the
ladder anyone got some good suggestions
yeah it's it's an interesting
conversation so isn't a side really
quickly I think it's interesting and by
the way below fish you're blowing into
your mic a little bit so if you couldn't
it's it works I mean it it fits really
well with your theme name if we could
just clean it up I think it's
interesting mark because I remember we
were basically scoffing at this right
like the meta hit a bunch of reddit
threads went up there like a DC's are no
longer viable and and a lot of the the
ADC players and marginal players started
to freak out
and then we were kind of mocking it
right it's like okay well actually
there's there's but I mean we got
reckless and Peter Peter who seems to
have been converted over to the idea
that like ADCs are inherently worse than
other options right like playing a
marksman is a worse decision at all
times and a different option at the
competitive level
yeah I seems better at like well it's
not what it's it's not so you think you
think like the 42% only standard bot
lanes or the 40% hybrid lanes in Korea
and China are just wrong by the way I'm
not saying I feel this way I never make
any bold statements like that I'm just
saying that the players think this and
then it's starting to feel like it might
be kind of true no not at all
I'm not being convinced and so who is
who are still viable ADCs wait high
really high so Lucian varis I'm like
yeah you can't get comboed by
veigar at six
that was a Z at six sitting actually
mispronounced all the champion names
anyway whatever any any level six burst
mage that bursts you and kills you
that's always how leagues work that's
not a new thing he was alone 1v1 and got
like hundreds of zero I don't know I
didn't I didn't look at that and go like
oh
marksman are dead I'm like manheimer is
really strong it wasn't like I
mean that happens sometimes in those
bruiser bot lanes and mage bot lanes I
don't know you know there's they're
still being played all around the world
to find success
so you think reckless is wrong I think
fanatics the unique situation where
blippo is really good and it works
better for them and by the way reckless
has a champion pool that was
getting exploited MSI already damn he
couldn't play as really couldn't play
Caixa what's strong in the matter right
now yeah so like I don't know I'm not
I'm not that like I agree like it sucks
that the key like got devalued overnight
but like what do you want me to say he's
he was not strong
to begin with man other things got
buffed yeah and you and you think there
are other and that Peters wrong too
because Peter seemed is starting to get
swayed by the reckless argument as well
I'm not saying that like I think what it
is right now is what's best for your
play style will be what's best for your
team and like what's best for a fanatics
play style because reckless doesn't have
a strong champion pool is absolutely to
put blippo down there and then play the
the bruiser major broke focus bought
lanes and swapped between him and so as
I think that's much more effective for
them I don't think that's better for
Team Liquid I don't think that you want
to stop in VIPRE I don't think you want
doublelift learning Vladimir I think
yeah but does that hit Team Liquid
errant disadvantage against the team
like fnatic no I think team look what's
worse than g2 misfits and fnatic and
they lost and they came in beat
splice when you and you think that's cuz
a skill not because of champion like
vibe I think that was more cousin like
would you write here let me put it this
way if you were running a team would you
rather have whip O available for you for
bot lane or doublelift doublelift okay
in this pack the whole team though yeah
this minute okay yeah okay I would want
uh caps as well can I get caps no can I
get so as as well no no
oh so it's almost like maybe fanatics a
better team and it's not that one
position no I just like telling you now
maybe Hill is saying look like a
god this tournament on pike and things
like that which we don't really play or
maybe we don't play aatrox and you got
dicked by eight rocks isn't this bad why
can we not play a chokes what does that
have to do with marksmen I don't I don't
know I just I'm saying it's bad that we
demand Marcus Martin just lighten up the
floor right now
alright listen here's what I'll do mark
this makes a lot of sense to me
I will go write an essay and I will get
it back to you you can play marksman and
if your team has a better strategy
but if you don't have a better straddle
marksmen are still fine ruler is on
record being like I don't know why the
people are complaining you don't
have to take my word for how about we
take the world champion ad carry's word
for it
yeah and I mean like like I said Lucy
was playing it too he was playing a
trucks so now so you're to go back to 2
& the blowfish as concern people like
reckless is a unique situation other
other a DC should not be concerned and
it's not like riot is like pushing a TCS
or marksmen out of a job I think I mean
yeah you can make that case I think it's
fine I think marksmen will slowly get
buffed over time like I said I don't
think right trying to kill marksmen
either so hopefully it gets into a spot
so I'm on I've got the Lee client open
right now we were talking earlier about
mana issues for some of the ABCs are we
gonna start talking numbers I mean
there's no there's no item that's not a
essence reaver or Trinity force that
gives attack speed and mana maybe an
introduction of like some kind of new
item chain that might focus on like
attack speed mana maybe CDR could be
influential in getting things like maybe
like MF more playtime I don't know like
because right now honestly if you're in
my solo queue game and you pick like
twitch urbane like you're hard in ting
that's unacceptable
well like that's there's lots of metas
like that character is like no longer
playable yeah but there's lots of metas
like that deed but wouldn't would would
with League of Legends benefit from
dancing in meadow where like more
champions are avail I mean the more
champions are available more champions
are available what are you talking about
are we getting greedy by saying that not
enough I think you could make the case
that not enough marksmen are viable in
the competitive scene right now I think
you'd absolutely make that case I just
don't want to be dead and no team is
triple banning marksmen in the first
round and being like try and pick a
marksman one of the most extreme
portions of what I was thinking was like
what if Riot Games decided to not
introduce new champions
for let's say six months or eight year
and just later they want their game to
not die though I mean but you are
reworking champions also with that
period I mean I'm not I'm just saying
introducing like you've got a hundred
and forty seven or so
I mean they've already done that though
if you there's some pretty long time
between champions if you look at the
release cycle the the new champion rate
has dropped off significantly in
champion reworks they're a lot more
popular now than they were before so
like they're already slowing down the
new champion thing though I understand
your point about folks will we see a
conclusion of that where we see like an
even longer period of time I don't know
cuz I mean we could benefit from some
additional items instead of cuz like I
said there's a there's a dearth right
yeah but no one no one wants another
rework right now a week for like you're
not gonna maybe not during this season
yeah I think I think if you're looking
at end of sees end of this season end of
world's next season and they introduced
some more things to help smooth out crit
scaling champions builds than sure but
like the problem with twitch in vein
isn't that they need mana it's that they
just kick all injury popped yeah yeah so
I think you know maybe there's some item
that is initially a defensive item and
when you're like you know how like
Murrah mana and mana me and a like
change forms maybe they're sound like
that something that develops yeah by a
call it gives you resists and
and then when you farm a hundred it
turns into this item that you I'm not
even kidding like if that's what you
needs sure I don't know
Blowfish thank you so much for your call
thanks guys big you think state thank
you guys all right moving on to the next
caller what do we got we got a more Marv
reset for three months back in the
States from the international tournament
own wait you never left
fly twister sub propel one two three
subbed hype loves hack Love Shack as
reset for two months and says love you
okay Robert Chidori subs Jordan Risa for
six months and we got and Peggy and the
call how's it going and Peggy pretty
good thank you for being a twitch sub
where are you calling from Austin I love
Austin it's a great city South by
Southwest is there love the food I'd
moved to Austin if I couldn't live on
the west coast or New York I love Austin
I used to live in Omaha Nebraska and
Austin as much better yeah you upgraded
hard I've never been in Nebraska and if
I don't ever go before I die that'll be
okay what do you want to talk about on
the show I want to talk about how echo
Fox with its kind of unique play style
in comparison to a lot of other na teams
can actually help North America become
more competitive on the international
scene so go ahead so I just I would like
to caveat this that I haven't been
playing for very long and I've only
started like regularly following Pro
play since like the spring split so if
I'm like completely off the mark on
anything that's really fine but from
what I can gather echo fox is very
different than a lot of North American
teams tend to play a lot more like TSM
where they have a lot slower pace right
so it's not quite so aggressive and
crazy and all over the place but then
echo fox is very different and so I
think that that can be helpful in two
ways one because if echo fox can stop in
ting they could actually be really
competitive in the international scene
because then they can throw other teams
off guard and two because I think that
can actually help to shake things up in
North America so I competed and coach
speech in debate for about 13 years and
in debate there if there are people who
are used to arguing a specific way they
might be really good
doing that but then if someone comes in
and they have an argument that's
significantly worse but it's just
different and crazy you don't have a
response for it you might still lose so
if you're not used to doing that and to
responding to that you're going to be
caught off guard more often and so I
seems to be very similar in league when
teams aren't able to respond to crazy
things they're caught off guard but if
they're also used to responding to crazy
things they're also going to be better
able to play standard because they
understand their team and how it
functions better than they would if
they're like oh I've been doing the same
thing all the time and this is how it
always works and they kind of get
complacent in that so echo fox has the
potential to be good if they can get
things locked down but they also can
help other teams get better by shaking
things up instead of North America just
having to wait to face international
teams to realize that what they're doing
isn't quite optimal what I just realized
is that you can totally cheese and
speech and debate competitions and
choose your way of success in speech
okay
that's that's good because it sounds
like that's ultimately what your
argument is right is that echo fox might
have strategies that are ultimately
worse but because they're different it
can lead them to success
that sounds very cheesy to me right that
that the concept that you're going to
try these unconventional strategies I
don't know I mean mark you tell me do
you feel like echo fox is cheesing and
all other games I know that we got hooni
running around the map like he plays
every role but I don't know if anything
count like if what they are doing is
that unconventional right like they're
trying to force funnels that ultimately
lose I wish an arrow was in the twitch
chat you know we always end up talking
about his team when he's not here but
yeah I feel like you could call them
cheesy and in most other metas you'd be
right it's just this one's a little
Wilders well don't call them that yeah
we're on a cheese board that's what this
meta is right yeah yeah you got a cheese
platter and trying to see which cheese
is cheesy er yeah I think the other
thing is Brie by the way I think you can
call them cheesy a little bit just
because it's hard to imagine
they're super practiced on any of these
strategies and it kind of functions as
attempting to make the other person as
uncomfortable as possible so they're
playing a weird game and you're playing
a weird game and then like you just win
that and especially for echo fox like
they're really scrappy team who are good
at like winning fights and stuff so I
think it works well for them but I could
see it being called cheese in that sense
where it's not like really well practice
amazingly thought out strategy that
they've put hundreds of games on like
standard is for most people yeah I so I
think that you bring up a really good
point Peggy but the thing is that it's
incredibly difficult to do well we've
seen actually historical examples of
this and not only this game but other
games I really really try my hardest not
to reference dota on this show but the
winner of the International and of--this
last year but the year before was a
Chinese team called wings that
essentially did this to really great
effect
what Kobe's we lost you're cutting it
out sorry the where are you being
serious or were you where did you
worried you last year me sorry don't you
said dota and wings okay yeah so that
the team that won TI not this last year
but the year before was a Chinese team
called wings and the thing about cheese
that's really great is that its
advantage is that you're hitting some
you're hitting your opponent with a
situation that they're not familiar with
they're not comfortable with right but
hypothetically because you are adept
this cheese you have practiced sit and
you are comfortable in this situation so
you have the advantage in that regard
the the thing that's hard though about
it is that because it's cheese and
because it's not common you don't have
as much resource to pull from for
perfecting this and also once your
unique strategies become learned by
other people they can see and adapt to
it so when you're screaming other teams
in your own region and when you're
playing these games like people over
time will have the ability to learn from
what you're doing and generally also its
cheese it's not standard meta
there are reasons why people are
intending to fall to the strategy so I
agree that in theory if echo fox can
pull this off if they stick to this
thing and they are able to develop
unique strategies and have unpredictable
looks and enough of them that they can
continue to put up good performances for
their opponents it is is default like
like I think unarguably the most
effective way to play if you can play
something different than everybody else
and you can play it effective enough
that they don't know what you're picking
and you know what they're gonna play
because everybody else is running
standard then you have an advantage it's
just incredibly difficult to do that and
that's why we don't see a lot of teams
you know be able to take it to that to
that final form and also like you know
it's usually not not standard for a
reason but yeah in that hypothetical
situation in which echo fox is able to
do this I think you're absolutely right
in that they make na a better region
because they are used to seeing this
stuff and they are better prepared for
worlds because they have developed these
really strong strategies in a in a
pocket but are they even developing as
good strategies as you and the rest of
the world are developing why haven't I
seen heimerdinger in the high LCS before
now mark to be fair timer's not that
popular elsewhere in the world if I'm
not mistaken okay so then let's just
take it as Europe right like heimer
Heimerdinger again like just sort of
going off of this dinner video that I'm
gonna release later on Peter was just
like heimerdinger's Opie he was he was
literally like asking perks and reckless
if there was a counter to Heimerdinger
and he said I feel so bad for my
teammates in soloqueue right now because
I'm just running it down bought with
Heimerdinger but is this is an example
right is that I worry that echo fox
might be doing some interesting stuff
but i don't see them doing as
interesting stuff as some of these other
regions so is that enough to even give
us a competitive advantage i don't know
mark or peggy if you guys have either of
you have a thought i think like you know
that's something that is very much like
a scrim
all true thing because it's what often
happens in why people pick champions in
League of Legends is because they'll
play against to install a queue or
they'll see some changes to the champion
on the patch notes in the want to try
and solo queue and they play in solo
queue and it goes well then they go
alright I'll play that in the LC I'll
play that in scrims and that goes well
when I play in the LCS no one in any
place Heimerdinger and so like if you
don't get other than like highs and dong
right and like if you don't get intro to
it
you're never gonna play it and so like
it's a weird like critical mass problem
we're like until you get blood blasted
by it by another region you're not gonna
pick it up and I think that's you know I
have to check to make sure I'm not wrong
here but I don't think it's getting
played anywhere else in the world it's
literally like a couple people I think
African Peter said is like the one trick
there's like a one-trick pro player who
says he s like 500 games on the champion
I think it was maybe this yarn in or
he'll assent I think it's gardening and
then like he probably just obliterated
some people to the point that they
learned it in EU and that's why you has
the the heimerdinger pick the
Heimerdinger tech he's just been taking
in a heimerdinger for yeah that's just
what happens like eventually it'll catch
on around the world he unlocked the
Heimerdinger tech for the rest of his
region yeah I'm not even kidding like
look at look at what happened with
hecarim you know like one team played
that in Korea or China first and then
like it's spread and it's spread to I
think starting trying to down went to
Korea and then came over to across the
sea once it was played there but like
that's kind of what happens in like I
I'm more disappointed in like not trying
I agree we should like we don't have
anything and it's sad I agree like I
don't know to sailor and hunter came out
hunter and twitch SS and I came up with
a brand yeah I think that one was a
little bit more well known but maybe
maybe it's just cuz I'm in na but like
yeah I think like each region has some
stuff that they think is just like crazy
and broken unless it is really broken
like eight rocks and it's getting played
everywhere around the world we get more
of that over here in North America
mark can you talk to the teams and see
who's like a secret one trick and make
them play that and I'll see I mean we
did that before we've done it before
like remember when scene I went to
worlds in 2015 they played a guard
Tristan everyone's like what the
you doing and then they they went three
Oh like it happens and then I just
at the end and then have a second strap
but you know whatever yeah okay Peggy go
ahead I see I my point wasn't so much
that they need to have a new strategy
every single game or even like continue
at the same point it's more that this
experimentation kind of what you're
talking about helps to make them better
so if I play only one champion and I
only play mid I might know a champion
really well I might know all of my
matchups really well but the instant
someone brings a champion that I'm not
used to into the lane I'm not gonna know
how to respond but if I learn to play a
bunch of different champions in a bunch
of different positions then I'm going to
understand my champion more and
understand the game better and be able
to play it better
so my thought is whether or not they
need to come up with new tricks every
single time probably not optimal
probably not possible but by trying it
and trying different crazy things they
become better as a team because they
understand different matchups better and
learn to adapt better but then also
other teams become better because of it
since they're practicing against a bunch
of different stuff yeah I think that's
kind of what Kelby addressed at the
beginning right is that this stuff is
good because it's sort of forcing
innovation and attempts to learn I
learned that though Kelby you were
saying it was more good for air it was
better market it was better for echo fox
fish is Peggy if and Peggy is is much
more of the opinion that this is
actually a comprehensive effect across
all of our North American teams yeah I'm
just wondering if what Peggy's talking
about is like too unrealistic as far as
like pro players being able to spend
enough time on really getting what they
need to out of different roles and
champions like rekkles doesn't have a
ten champions because he sucks and he's
a bad player and he only knows how to
like you know like play ten champions
and he's limited in that regard it's
just like that's how many champions pro
players typically know yeah in their
attempt and they
he was saying in the interview that
there are ten viable champions bottom
and none of them are like his yeah but
let's let's okay let's say he knows ten
80s though right or something like that
whatever whatever the number is if it's
ten it's 5:15 blah blah but I pay you
correct me if I'm wrong but what it
seems like you're talking about is that
echo fox does something where they are
playing more champions and have players
playing in more roles than then standard
teams are doing it's kind of that idea
of like the whole one trick thing right
so they put doc on rank or top because
he's good at rengar so that works for
them so they're kind of using that
uniqueness about them but they're trying
it they're kind of putting it out there
and so that kind of experimentation is
helpful to them and it's helpful to
other people and regardless of whether
or not like everyone should then learn
rengar learned Vladimir if you're trying
it at the very least you're
understanding it more so even if you
can't do it you can better exploit it if
you play against it yeah I think the
idea of playing against something as
good experience is a little yeah because
if da rock top is the only person or
Derek's the only person playing rengar
top you actually don't need to practice
against it arguably yeah cuz that's
that's what a lot of teams do is if you
play some cheese against them in
scrims they'll just ban it out so they
force you to play stander and you're
stop playing cheese against them because
they feel like it's like well I'm never
gonna have to learn that matchup and
maybe that's a bad long-term approach to
the game
and you probably want to do that in solo
queue necessarily but in scrims
preparing for a certain opponent for the
next week it's like I'm not playing da
rock next week I'm playing impact I
don't need to learn how to play against
rengar right now I just I need to play
against Orin and move mundo or something
you know yeah that's
the brief Travis we're doing a show we
just taken the rig's out this is 'aslim
all right Peggy
yes Sam thinks it's getting too hot in
here so we need to move on but thank you
so much for your call yes of course I
appreciate your comment any shoutouts
any final thoughts um no it's just been
really great this is my first time
watching it live I usually just watch it
after the fact so this has been very fun
all right very good thank you set out
yeah all right moving on to some more
shout outs by the way thank you if you
hover your cursor over the twitch screen
right now you'll see if you have a
twitch prime sub and send it my way
let's see Rover storage or denry subbed
zat is a free glucan I'm rolled
unbalanced tree sub for two months keep
up the great content reckless interview
was amazing Acker and AB three subbed
chaotic blizzard grizzly smiles Rea on
the moon giant the dran agora sham sham
sham gifted subject ly wiggly a lost pig
and easy bake it up moving on to the
next color we got dr. Manhattan
returning to the show
he's been playing Ultimate Marvel vs.
Capcom 3 for past 55 minutes and he's a
twitch sub thank you for calling in dr.
Manhattan and I believe you're calling
from Florida Washington DC I met
you in Miami I forgot that you lived in
yeah well listen I don't normally try to
remember but I tried this time and it
didn't work out yeah what do you want to
talk about on the show dr. Manhattan and
thanks for being in twitch them
yeah no problem just for the record I
just did them alternates Capcom 3
twosome mess with you actually haven't
even been actively doing it but I'm my
topic that I wanted to talk about was
what you guys were talking about before
the cons was just I think Kelby or
somebody talked about how like making it
a groups in worlds really isn't like
this like is that can we make well while
nice and kind of a feels good man
like isn't just like this ultimate thing
that people make it out to be in and
ultimately a boils down to just the
constant beat down that na has gotten in
the past couple of world championships
and that's kind of why I feel like
groups just seems like the goal or
making that a groups it seems like the
goal for some strange and almost that
reason just make it's sad that our goal
is to make it out of groups man who
cares
that doesn't mean you're good i I
understand what what Mark said earlier
but like yeah it's only our goal because
that's how low our bar is for me sort of
yeah progress to what listen we don't
want people to ever take samples of ice
cream places you don't start off with no
one should ever get an ice cream sample
ok ok Kelby is 40 like how much of a
curmudgeon he'll be then kids order your
ice cream he wasn't like this before he
got married by the way I think at that
point I just started aging more round
how is this how is this pretty small
stop Brittany's fault i but it's you
deciding to get married to she in the
background yelling right now well nope
no it's fine it's fine Brittany we're
talking about a different Brittany tell
her it's a Japanese oh that'll help I
get what you're saying there but like
let's be real Annie's never winning
worlds so what are we making progress
towards you know like Peter said in a
will or no he said something like and
he's gonna show up at some point in time
right show up like as in like get other
groups yeah that's that's showing up but
as as dr. Manhattan was saying it's sad
that that's what's showing up is for us
it I just don't there needs to be a
greater change than like a team getting
it together
or figuring it out the reach are you
making fun of my hand moving
I know a team needs like there has to be
a greater reach and shift as a whole in
our player base in our in a way that
things are approached in order for na to
win worlds or they need to completely
remove the number of imports that you
can have and we go full Korean and then
I think we can fully win worlds I
absolutely we have the money to afford a
really good Korean roster with you and
on in a ping our imports imports never
get better when they come to North
America acquisition right before the
tournament we just need riot to like
remove all sort of legal restrictions
that would stop us so we buy the LSA ke
champion and we're like class 9 yeah
rebranding like Samsung Galaxy did right
before you know they went to their
worlds and they had a terrible
performance but that year was it was it
who are they before where they and the
MVP MVP right and then they got
rebranded sense that's what we need we
need that permission interesting piece
by the team what you're saying is we
should just do the overwatch league
thing and just go in yes oh yes my excel
a little spitfire you know let's go i
want to back it up a little bit and i
want to back it up a lot of it like you
know I think it was Thoren who tweeted
this out which is no probably not the
best name to drop right now but I agree
with the sentiment that in in eSports
top heat is not always held in high
enough regard in tournaments like top
aiding and getting out of groups in csgo
is a big accomplishment like getting to
top 8 at TI is a big accomplishment like
in Smash Bros getting top eight for 99
percent of the players and teams even
competitively playing this show is a top
eight League of Legends podcast yeah and
that's a big accomplishment and that's
what I tell myself every morning when I
wake up no but like okay so you're not
mango or Armada and
that's not who you are right now you're
not SKT but like getting top eight is
still an accomplishment and I think it's
it sucks for Lee and na in particular
they haven't like beaten anyone good I
think I find that way worse then that we
haven't you know we get out of groups
nests an accomplishment to us like
whatever like getting out of groups is
cool I think like anyone who gets out of
groups you feel pretty happy but I think
you know it would have been nice if
somewhere along the past six years we'd
be anyone good yeah progression is
important and that well I'm just saying
like getting out of groups for every
team it should not be poopoo you know
like I think that actually is a big
accomplishment for most people I agree
with you but the fact of the matter is
that it is still like saying it doesn't
change it it's it's still poop ood and
it's not gonna change I don't think like
people are not gonna go like you know
what this csgo team got top eight at
that major there are really good
like they don't know but I think if
North America did they feel that way
what if what if I got all three teams
out of group stage in the top eight and
then we got three Korean seeds and we
got or something you know like I
wouldn't feel that bad about that year
I'd be like wow we got dicked by the
draw we would feel very good I think for
the first time that it happened and what
if what if we did it and Europe didn't
get anybody out of groups that year
would we feel amazing like sure sex is
good but have you ever gotten all three
of your na seeds out of groups
definitely not you at all what how long
would you give them sex before that
Travis well
I've I've been giving up sex for 29
years mark all right what's one more
dude give it up for the team yeah yeah
but but I also see the other side of it
where it's like at the end of the day
and it hasn't done internationally
in forever
other than like that 1ms I run with CLG
so I you know I get the other side to
you where it's like it's not impressive
because we haven't done anything yeah c9
getting out of groups over like two
teams you like choke their balls off and
EDG
scout endings for five games was not
like wow way to go na hunter the manager
runner team runner of golden Guardian
says we need to get Travis sex maybe
that's the problem dr. manhattan's what
do you think of our general conversation
here yeah and also on the other side of
the coin I will admit that um I mean
even though na hasn't performed like uh
August hasn't gotten top today I was
looking at the past couple of World
Championships and people act like na got
like completely like did like that would
be a feels bad man like if like na just
completely like didn't even win a game
like kind of something like these
wild-card teams I mean you had to
tiebreakers last year which you know I
mean there was that at least I mean the
only year I think that was absolutely
unacceptable was probably 2015 we're
like CLG the whole brtt thing
TSM I think part said they were like
mentally checked out so didn't even try
in that really part group and c9 went
from like three Oh tonight not even yeah
so like other than that like there have
been a few close ones I mean TSM was
just like I think had the same record at
the end of as orangey but just got lost
because of the tiebreaker and could of
course a tiebreaker well the real
problem with all those is that usually
Europe China and Korea have one team
doing better than North America's best
team and that's I think that's what it
amounts to is that like it's not
specifically groups or quarters or
whatever it is it's that like we're
always getting out done and we're
definitely like the region that has to
try and justify the position at the
big-boy table the most yeah that's
that's probably what's all right so the
final verdict is yes it's sad but at
least we got we can progress there and
it would still be an accomplishment like
you don't listen anything it's been a
tough time what are yours what if what
if na LCS had EU LCS viewership man holy
think about that have you watched
recently yeah I bet it's still not as
bad as you all see you know you watch
recently I guess not is it as bad just
is bad there on the seas on the rise and
the nays on the fall by for EU
franchising hurry do it now doctor
thanks for the call
this is the doomsday scenario yep let
dr. Manhattan say something at the end
here
sorry it's all good awesome being here
again and shout-out to Owen by HP and
not the chainsmokers Thank You dr.
Manhattan this guy dude what is he
doing on here tell me you're peeking
what they're so loud awesome I'm just
sorry holy
if you has better viewership than us
what do we have left the money goes with
the viewers we're gonna be Cal we
have a new collar that was really quick
mekka Laura that's because I feel like
Kelby will be very interested in our
last caller mecha Laura why is a twitch
sub thank you for being a sub what do
you want to talk about on the show it's
something that I've never seen before
not even in like Joel officials to be
fair yeah what was more of like a panic
benching a mum was like I don't think I
should be playing great yeah he's like
well reckless like actually sat down and
thought to himself like we just aren't
as good with me as a starter like we're
better with repo playing and and I think
that's just something that we don't see
from athletes in any sense of the word
nowadays yeah I think it's reason
ormally the coach should make that
decision and there's enough trust that
the coach could could do that right the
coaches such control over traditional
sports teams that like I don't think it
ever enters into the players mind that
they could dictate the terms of
something like that I mean mark went off
on the idea that Olli would bench
himself before whenever we had that
conversation mark how do you feel about
reckless benching himself I think it's
fine I think they're two totally
different situations like leg Mecca Lara
was saying like one was kind of like a
pain
benching and you're benching yourself
for Joey Joey who's never played with
your team before and one is for blippo
who actually has performed decently well
on a pretty large stages and in a meta
where it makes sense to do this so like
I actually do you think it's totally
fine for reckless to like I think it I
think was a like temeka Lara's point
like a good move for their team I think
fnatic is clearly better with wit bow
down there then Jana out of reckless so
what was the what was the like stance or
the take before you do you think it's
commendable Mecca Laura oh I think it's
I think it's like amazing for it like
that that he like had the mental like
kind of like strength to just say hey I
think we're better I know last year I
was like the star player for the roster
but I think we're just better off with
we both starting in place of me and then
I'll just like do my own thing and so
look you and get some scrim time if
possible it's just like what was the
example I was thinking like Carmelo
Anthony for the people who don't watch
basketball like got traded to the
Thunder and in the news conference like
leading up to that season somebody in
the audience suggested that he should
come off the bench and he like turned to
someone who works for the team I was
like yeah that's yeah that's that's
ridiculous like me bent me get playing
off the bench is just like a ridiculous
statement even though he had like
statistically is like worse season
following that statement yeah I think it
is commendable that like he is willing
to do what's best for the org which is
something that like I don't think a lot
of people are willing to do especially I
feel like in the past people have said
that reckless has got a huge ego and
there's been an issue on teams he's been
on in the past that's been the rumor and
so this feels very much to fly in them
well it does depend on I mean like to be
fair to play the devil's advocate he's a
cynical asshole it could just be that he
knows he's not very good in the meta and
just playing them at
like you could easily take the cynical
asshole perspective and be like well he
was playing Janna and karma looking like
dog people were making fun of him
so he benched himself so they couldn't
you know like that's another perspective
if you know it could be a jerk I also
wanted to mention how him benching
himself is something that like now that
his contracts up after this split when
he if he like looks to go to actually
let go - I thought he signed a pretty
long deal
oh that he did he get an extension oh
yeah he extended and there's a big deal
about that my interview event all-stars
about it where he was talking about why
he decided to go for a multi-year
contract with fnatic well hmm this is
awkward now yeah I don't know I think
it's impressive and I think yeah it's
something that not too many people are
talking about I don't know if I missed
that story before I don't know where
that story came out because I didn't
know it before I talked to them but it's
learn about it until your interview
slash dinner thing yeah as the way it
should be you know people don't know
anything about hearing it from me first
but I I don't it's interesting I'm
curious what the solution is for him
long time it long long term is because I
don't know it doesn't sound like there's
anything on the horizon for crit ADCs
maybe there are and then he just like
burst back into the scene but also like
buffed him didn't they
8:13 had buffs room well at least some
recklessness perspective I don't think
he felt like it's enough like he's he's
looking down a tunnel that he doesn't
feel like there's necessarily light at
the end of so yeah in his solo queue
he's only been playing marksmen and
other stuff if he gets filled so I I
think he's just hoping it goes back to
the stuff he's good at yeah in your in
your interview he said he was gonna
start playing other champions but then
they just like had just recently started
doing that yeah he started playing the
champions but he was saying he was doing
that more to help provide additional
context and support to blippo then
because he thinks he's gonna like burst
on the scene one
is flat so damn I don't know that it's
that's a it was a really interesting
interview I was happy he by the way you
want to talk about hang on you want to
talk about something broke players never
bench themselves other than you know the
only thing Pro players never messaged me
and say you want to do an interview and
he did that he was like hey I'm flying
to North America tomorrow
do you want to do an interview I'm gonna
did we did one because of that so this
China that's a reckless by the way
because I wish more improved is he gonna
live on your couch for a little bit is
he gonna go to a full double lift I wish
how many hot men can you fit in that one
tiny apartment you got Kobe I don't know
Mike you wanna come over I don't think
I'm qualified that's that's some
esteemed company yeah make it Laura
thank you so much for your call no bomb
thanks for having me on
yeah all right a quick shout-out here
where were we cool last 33 reset for six
months omen by HP get that merch store
up and running Kelly we want that
hotline League March are you doing a
bird store for us Kelly by the way
doubly six months thank you so much cool
us gloater subbed rogaine st. vicious
subbed it's law 62 so rl78 died what
served I don't watch TV reset for eight
what's and says I want a team from the
bottom middle and top what ral Dios said
for four months and says hello alright
our gibbons 92 is here are given society
where he come from hey man I'm calling
from Myrtle Beach South Carolina nice
very cool what year were you born in 85
what what you know it Oh arguments
you're such a troll what do you want to
talk about of the show tonight basically
I think that a hundred thieves made a
really smart long-term play about
trading
medias because the way that the way that
Levi looked this whole my opinion from
what I've seen of under thieves games
only got to catch two he looked really
strong you ever had it brand eating look
awful he look like trap well how does
Sunday normally look he's saying long
term yeah long to some day you could
keep Levi's around without trading media
so I don't know why it's a good
long-term so the solution because
mediators I've been a big fan of media
since like you know originally nine
aquatic days and I remember Katie a
media's but I really GTA me that did you
know that Kelby used to call him the Sun
God no it's just almost ten each tear
League of Legends said the Sun God is a
jealous God and he would talk about how
the Sun God wanted all the farm and I'm
really sad that he got traded to fly
quest but I don't know I just feel like
Levi's raw potential alone is going to
get them further down the road compared
to what media's can bring to the table I
just don't know why you need to trade me
yes in order to unlock that potential
like long-term like why not just keep
Levi's around for summer split and then
bring him in at the start of next year
in trade medias like I don't think that
trading medias now is a good thing for
you because like I don't think they're
gonna be I completely agree with that I
think the whole on the swath even if
you're not gonna be using Levi's and
you're gonna be keeping some day and
rear in I think that's a terrible like
on does not great by any means
he looked okay at best at times when he
looked like was I mean and I guess I
agree are we just gonna like not ever
assume that like there was problems
behind the scene with meteors that they
that they
want to move him for that like they talk
about how the team synergy wasn't there
and they weren't gelling in that post
and then you could watch you know you
could watch the the heist video where
they were like being pretty like sticky
on an issue like right we support each
other yeah I don't think it was just
like man I wish there was some way to
play Levi and see how good he is
oh let's just trade medias like I don't
think yeah that was the one - no more -
Travis like I don't think it was like
ma'am have to move meteos to play Levi
was like things aren't working and we
need a substitute jungler if we're gonna
make this work and maybe meteos is
refusing to substitute out or whatever
and play an academy whatever it is I
don't know I'm I'm just saying I think
there's more to the story than just want
to play Levi
I think grete deleted my media is
showing 100 thieves video or should
media's join TSM video that was on the
lousy Travis so right amaz deleted it I
was gonna go check I like directions
were did the League of Legends somewhere
amounts are hilarious so look I I mean I
did yes I get that it made sense to
maybe trade meteos given all the
conflict and but I don't think that
it's a good long-term decision because
of Levi's like it's probably a good
long-term decision well it's a
questionable a good long-term decision
because maybe like I I'm not sure 100
these gets to go to Worlds now but I
think there was a pretty good chance
that could have gone with meteos time
will tell I guess but it's much more
question it's it's much it's interesting
I feel like they might be bringing Levi
up a little sooner if onto ends up
the bed well but how do you do
that yeah I don't know yeah that's true
that's even though it's playing good
Brynn sorry you go no say you're either
stuck with brandini or linsanity which i
don't know how bad linsanity is doing
I've been really pay attention to
anything other than the c9 games and
challenger but
yeah let's say that he's not great
bernzini I think it's actually okay
because who wasn't getting dicked
against the European top laners so I
wouldn't mind seeing a little more of
him but you definitely don't want to
look dumb de who's a beast so yeah I was
a monster last week yeah I don't I don't
really know what they do their roster is
like a bunch of good players that just
don't slot in correctly together so I
mm-hmm I'm not sold it's a good
long-term move either I don't know as
much as I was arguing against Travis I I
actually think I mostly agree with them
link says that wonder is really
good because he leaned against him
thanks link I mean I believed it before
that but it's always good to get more
data wonder wonders of East yeah I don't
know if doing well against washed-up
League players as a proof of concept
Jesus now you've gotta get Austin on the
call to defend him say hey I've been
trying to bait him he just hangs out on
the twitch chat gives commentary alright
gets excited whenever Calvi says so I
think about dota arguments thank you
for EMS I think it was good one I
absolutely appreciate it in a big
shout-out to you and uh you and Mark you
guys have been a big fan of yours for a
long time thank you thank you for
watching and thank you for not getting
and he'll be in that shut up I
appreciate I just recently learned about
Kelly May from this show so don't need
to get baited by Travis League says
thank you so much
have a good night dude link says look at
this interviewer begging for pro players
to call him for a views alright where
were we
real folks who gifted us up to the mark
Z dank sorry stuffer for months and says
thanks I went by HP uber lawn gnome
resub for five months my HP helped
deliver my firstborn child thanks Owen
by HP damn Korean Jesus 21 bromine
the mahram guy reset for three months
Darkrai 10 subs thank you mxr subbed the
squirrel - subbed copyright subbed so me
sub-sahara healer healer sends 300 bits
alright we'll get to the rest of those
at the end of the show but we got Zen
tricks as our last caller of the night
Zen tricks what do you want to talk
about hey how you doing pretty well
thank you very much i won i wanted to
talk about the current decline of league
of legends in the west and if you don't
mind like me talking about my background
on where my stances from my background
in league of legends I've been playing
leaks in season two and in the last two
seasons I've been high masters and this
this year I was super excited because I
was I've been working part-time through
wild work being at university full-time
saving money to go to Korea with some
other challenger players I was gonna go
with my friend Sawyer and I have
recently recently given that up and
decided to keep my money and just say
it's not worth it for me because I just
feel like League has is just declining
in general in the West and I just want
your opinion why was it worth it before
because I always I've always had to side
the side dream of becoming a
professional player and I won't say that
I wanted to be a professional player for
the dream of just being in the fame and
playing because you have such a great
passion for the game but it doesn't hurt
as you as you get older and older and
use mature because I'm a freshman at NC
State University which is actually a
pretty big leak community it's just that
when your friends stop playing the game
you start losing motivation and grinding
so like you especially in na where
people don't take it seriously gets
extremely fatiguing and you start to
have the thought of can I actually do
this professionally and do I want to do
this professionally yeah but my question
is like what what was it that you what
made you want to do it professionally
before because I always I've been placed
in season two and I always looked up to
pro players and it was just a massive
passion of mine because I loved playing
the game but as
as the years have gone on and I'm being
a full-time university student it's
gotten harder and harder and it's been
more and more fatiguing which is why I
think it's the popularity of League of
Legends has definitely dropped in the
West and I don't and people say it's
because of four nights because of this
is because on that I think I don't think
it's that I think it's because the
reason why people play games
specifically in North America has
drastically changed so I'm a little
confused by the link here because you
say that you you went to college it
became more fatiguing and then you jump
to the player decline right you see like
right that's why there's a player is it
like everybody who was playing the game
is now in college and they're more
fatigued or I understand the link I
think is because when when the game was
booming a lot of people's play started
League of Legends like season four
that's season 4 season 5 in my opinion
where the biggest booms of League of
Legends when the LCS like really like
started to kick off like go full steam
full throttle and people are watching
the LCS like crazy but as time goes on
because it's just I feel like it gets
repetitive and even though they changed
a lot of things I currently think League
of Legends is one of the best states it
is to play the game as a player for fun
because playing the game with your
friends right now is in a great state
and almost everything works everywhere
in the game theoretically for fun and a
casual level but and go ahead no no okay
I'm just so you wanted to be a pro
player but now you don't because the
player base declined well no okay
they're unrelated topics okay that's my
background from where I'm coming from in
how I feel on the topic so to summarize
and you can tell me if I get this wrong
you or someone who used to be very or
still are very good this game used to
play competitively with the dream of
eventually going pro as time went on
your friends and people started dropping
off and then you will also started being
less excited about it and when you look
around you now you see this landscape
where it doesn't feel like the hype is
there and it's right largely declining
yeah and I don't know if you guys saw
that reddit video when orangey one MSI
but there was a reddit video out there
of uh it was a Chinese University of
when orangey one they were all like
outside their dorms was screaming yeah
like I'm like holy that's so hype
like they are so enthusiastic about
League and and they are and they do try
hard and the reason that's why I wanted
to go to Korea in the first place and I
had $3,000 saved out for this entire
past year to step forward that and it's
just like it's just like you play na
soloq you and you just realize like
people just really don't give a and
when I have a my girlfriend just started
trying to pick up League of Legends and
it's so difficult for her to like keep
wanting to play because it's so much
easier for her to click two buttons and
be on like an equal playing field in
fortnight rather than having to grind
for 70 plus hours just to hit level 30
and own like 20 percent of the champions
like it just takes so much time to have
a hundred percent of the play of your of
the playing field available to you in
League of Legends whereas other games is
very quick I'm I'm just worried that
you're hopping around from a lot of
different topics right because it at
times I feel like you're talking about
you not wanting to go pro anymore and
now we're talking about it becomes too
long to unlock champions I'm soaking
Travis's livelihood it's okay we'll get
through this topic no no no I don't mind
asking he's not talking it's not
attacking my lightly I'm just confused
by the argument but I'm saying it's all
of these things coming into one because
it's Devin because I see it I I went to
university with a bunch of my friends
and my university has a great college
team and a lot of the players on that
team are masters and I went and
throughout all of my high school
whatever all of my friends play League
of Legends almost none of them do
anymore almost all of them had a have
quit out of sheer frustration out of the
game at points and they've been playing
for so long and the thing is the player
base is dying I think in my opinion in
the West because a lot of people picked
up the game early on and played it for
an extent
period of time and those players are
getting burned out of the game and the
player base is not replenishing because
getting into the game and getting into
League of Legends is hard and the end
the Asian added to towards league of
legends and in in in general is to work
hard things that you like and enjoy in
America people pick things up they like
it they play it like all this is cool
and then they drop it people on them and
especially and na are exactly like that
so I'm not surprised that League of
Legends it is truck it's just dying in
the West and I don't know how riot is
gonna bring viewership back into League
of Legends and gonna make League of
Legends great again and bring that spark
it had in 2015 because I remember I went
to a Madison Square Garden where I had
the pleasure of meeting you Travis in
2016 and that was the best best of three
semifinal game ever like it was
fantastic I agree cuz SKT vs Rox Tigers
and I am so glad I got to experience
that and I really really look forward to
having another experience like that so
Zen tricks is it fair to say then that
you think that the decline of League of
Legends is the way in the West in
particular in the u.s. is because of the
way that already in our audience
consumes and rotates through like games
that are popular in our sphere is that
like yeah the league has just done its
natural popularity cycle and well it's
not necessarily oh sorry go ahead
no I just my opinion is League of
Legends will never die because League of
Legends is without a doubt one of the
most competitive eSports and has a
fantastic viewer experience right I
personally think overwatch League is you
know the game is very competitive but
the viewer side of things aren't that
great csgo is another example whereas
not that it's a dying game but the
viewership is great the competitiveness
is great that game will always be around
League of Legends will always be around
okay
so let's just let's let's - - so Kelby
thoughts I mean we talk about this a lot
Travis you know that I agree with our
buddy here and I agree with the reason
as well I think
that and it's not just leaked dota CS Co
overwatch I think are all experiencing
this same thing
dota viewership al viewership over the
course of the the four splits that
they've done League viewership csgo we
don't know cuz it's on Facebook and we
don't have that data decline of so much
yeah like all of these games are not
doing good from a viewership standpoint
over like the last 18 months and their
player bases are also reflecting that
riot has not published player based
numbers in a long time and but they used
to publish player base numbers and
usually when you're player base is
growing you like to tout that out
people are loud about those things so
yeah no I agree entirely and I think
that this is one of the larger things
that eSports will just have to deal with
and figure out as it tries to become
more mainstream prevalent is how does it
deal with the fact that its title
popularity I think will continue to
shift over time and bounce to new things
and the scary thing about it if I were a
team owner in this situation is that
like you have League dota and see us
overwatch League and csgo viewership
doing this and fortnight which is like
the next up-and-coming big thing right
or even the battleship rayel genera in
general is not a great eSports
substitute right now it's definitely not
no it's yeah and it's like they also
just don't have epic has been like
pretty pronounced that what they are
going to do with their prize money that
they're setting aside for their World
Cup circuit is not what traditional
eSports looks like right now pub G has
been really slow to market and there I
I'm a huge pub G player I've played a
lot of pub she watchin pub she broadcast
is really difficult I have a very hard
time getting interest in that so like if
you're an eSports team owner right now
your big three or four or on the decline
and the up-and-coming titles are more
casual market focused where like not
every multiplayer game has to
have a great Easter saengil you can
watch ninja you can watch these other
guys and matchmaking I believe more
importantly eSports than you do Kelby
but I get your point I'm not saying that
you can't like yeah yeah you you you get
my point
it's not that you can't watch
competitive fortnight and have a good
time doing it's that I think the team
stilts late into it the same way they
slide into dota and League and these
other games because if you ask if you
ask someone who the top eight pub G
teams are it's a toss-up yeah I mean
there aren't even like yeah pub she's
not an undisputed best team in any
battle royale game no I mean I think
those those things are growing right
like that that's what it was with League
back in the day like it's the primordial
ooze the Battle Royale eSports right now
that's that's less of a concern to me
than like how do you make a single
viewing experience good and not just
like let everyone stream their games
individually I think the major
underlining issue in League of Legends
is the leveling to one to thirty process
because it's in my opinion it's in a
horrific state my girlfriend was playing
it now you know she's asking me for
pointers I was watching your play she's
playing normal games you know like
normal blind pick half the people on the
other team are BOTS running it down
really yes they play Garen they go zero
and fifteen they just run around they're
not human players and I'm not just
saying like oh they're bad players like
they are literally not human players
constant level of 30 that people
purchase for smurf accounts it's an
issue they play around games they play
3v3
and then on top of that she gets into
smurf games the first you know couple of
games and it really like demotivates her
from continuing the play and i have to
sit there and tell her oh it'll get
better don't worry once you learn
everything you'll keep getting better
and she's like yeah it's fun I mean for
a couple games then why should I not
just play fortnight you know what my
friends you know people aren't bonding
over League of Legends like they did in
the past which I think yeah I think so
the good news is look I I don't know if
League is gonna ever return to like the
500k viewership TSM CLG games but I do
think that there's a lot of opportunity
that we're right in the past has not
been focused on growing their playerbase
I think as much as they could have and
they've not been focused as much on
growing their viewership as much as they
could have I think now they should be
very much focused on that they still
have a very large amount of people that
are playing League of Legends I think
they can do things to help convert those
people over to spectators I would bet
you that overwatch League gets an
amazing amount of viewership comparative
to its player base like I would imagine
I this is all speculation but I would
imagine a higher percentage of their
player base is watching overwatch League
than the player base of League of
Legends is watching LCS relative to
their regions or whatever and I think
that is because Blizzard has done a
great job of marketing to their player
base overwatch League and doing
interesting things like the twitch
integration which Riot was supposed to
see with BAM tech thing and I never came
through so I think there's a ton of
space for riot to vote if it they need
to get the whole company on board for
this because if you look at or watch
League like Activision and Blizzard are
actively pushing their stuff way harder
than I think right is because it's
coming from their CEO versus riot where
it's coming from smaller teams but I
think there's a lot of opportunity for
riot to do this stuff and that's what
I'm hoping wound up happening I just
want to apologize for being all over the
place it's just a a passionate point for
me I think it's also I come over I come
at it from a lot of angles sure I think
those have complex to I think there's a
lot of things like new player
acquisition versus old player burnout
versus viewership and current market
trends of gaming as a whole and all that
stuff we're doing renewing the player
base is also a big thing one thing they
should do is definitely get rid of the
currency in the game and just
make a battle pass I think I think
battle pass is really good it
incentivizes people to play the game
what fortnight did is incredible and
what every other idea
hmm they are smart
I know this will never happen but I feel
like I feel like champions have to be
like easier to obtain or more or less
free as in dota I know that's not like
any more huge this guy Travis we can't
have opinions not here I don't think
it's financially smart for them because
they make so much money off people
buying champions but I mean it's an
underlining it's an underlining problem
well I don't know I it would be
interesting I I'm so out of touch with
like the new player experience that I
would be in bad well okay I tried yeah i
but I don't know if it's if it's about I
don't think it's I'm sure it's bad I
don't know if it's bad because you have
to unlock champions it's playing
experience is poor mark it's pretty bad
for a lot of reasons I tried to make an
account right when the new season came
out to get like the experience of
unlocking the new truths because the old
problem was new players had to buy a
million runes and it wasn't like
you know you're supposed to buy and it
was shitty rune pages you get dicked on
you've already had like a sunken Cocker
so I tried it and this is at the start
of a new season when new player
acquisition should arguably be at its
highest and it was a pretty shitty
experience yeah and imagine that for
someone who doesn't play never who
doesn't play the game right imagine it's
it's like what is this what is this game
it only takes and the thing is in League
of Legends somebody is one person can
ruin your game and as a new person
someone ruins your game you're like
Oscar this I bet I mean that's truly
every game but well imagine taking five
minutes to get into game someone
screwing it over and then being trapped
in that game for 10 minutes and compare
that to pub G or fortnight where you get
into a game because there's no
matchmaking in 30 seconds and you die
instantly you're not trapped in the game
for ten minutes you just play again I
wonder why people perfor prefer a
fortnight it's really crazy that casual
players would prefer an experience they
get to play the game yeah I just think I
just think League of Legends has lost a
large majority of the casual player base
which has impacted the game in all
spectrums and all aspects of the game
yeah I look I think a lot of this is
very doomsday like that player
experience has been the way it has been
for years and Wright has found success
regardless
that doesn't mean it should change or
that it shouldn't change but I I don't
like we're saying all the stuff but a
lot of this has been the case for a
while I think that's a really good sign
though because it means that there's a
ton of room for improvement that can I
could improve this stuff what mark it
was a face mark huh
market markets change around with me not
Popular's cuz they need to adjust there
was no good in free-to-play games when
league started so that was the hype
game was the innovator they were
yeah they were the early adopter who was
like yeah play our game we don't walk
any they were the first place
free-to-play people to do that and they
got it right early yeah but there's been
a ton of free to play game sense yeah
but none that captured the overall
interest of the PC free-to-play market
on the level that we play fortnight
has the killer I'm just saying that like
the market has caught up and surpassed
League of Legends now there's better
free-to-play newbie experiences when for
a period of time League of Legends was
the best one yeah no it's not I go ahead
tell me no I was just gonna say too just
to reinforce what Centrex was saying
like so much of what people play to is
is social and like you get on and play
what your other friends are playing a
lot of the time and because League has
kind of fallen out of this this
mainstream like Limelight's
it's it's it's it's it's one of those
things that's really really hard to
recover from they also never tried to
market really to to people like where's
main LCS was their marketing yeah that's
that's not gonna cuz we just I just
don't want to see you get to the point
where the LCS is starting to be
artificially inflated and artificially
sustained that's that will be the true
dying point of League of Legends but I
think we're anything artificial thing
and play didn't sustain
well for example I play Rainbow six
siege I have kind of switched to that as
a more casual player and it's a
fantastic game I really enjoyed playing
Rainbow six siege I don't know if you
guys have seen Shroud playing it's a lot
of fun yeah no I play I probably am a
teacher too yes as a I'm top I'm like
top 50 in siege right now in North
America and it's and its ton of fun I'm
having a lot of fun playing it with my
friends
as Canadian what's your name on seach
Zed Trix - HP alright cool yeah use our
6db right I'm just gonna ask Canadian
who's the captain of the eg Jesus it's
such a dick measuring top fifty
and Rainbow six siege brother way I'll
let me ask the top broom layer by the
way alright it's just it's just tough
because there's just I lost my train of
thought sorry but it's just that League
of Legends has been around for so long
and no you were saying why is Rainbow
six siege artificially maintained there
it is because developers of Rainbow six
have paid organisations to come into the
game and pick up in pickup teams and
well don't worry rights now we're gonna
pay an organization I know that won't
happen but it could get to the point
where they start half they start pouring
way too much into the into LCS returns
for them negative return right now
obviously it's always been LCS has
always been a negative return for them
in terms of direct money investment well
I you know if it if it starts to go too
much and Riot Games is not making as
much as they used to in terms of in
North America it's hard to sustain that
off just of the Asian player of this I
mean I think there's a good chance that
na LCS downsizes I'm not worried too
much about the Asian player base but
yeah I don't know the good news is a
like I am not really an ALCS downsizes
you don't think we're gonna refile some
of the team's their money or what will
happen they're probably not there's no
way they just lose their investment
they're kicked out of the league I mean
I don't know we don't know sorry when I
sit down sighs I don't mean like kick
team's out I mean like they do less
event like they're already starting to
see that a little bit right like Miami
was in a smaller venue international
events have been in smaller places
that's
so I mean by downsizing Southwest has
well you're putting teams on the block
no no hey thanks for the calls and
tricks alright no problem guys I'm not a
knight thanks for having me on have a
good I guess how do you guys think his
end tricks also mmm is on the RO team
and a 6-4 do you think you went to UC
Davis yeah he's just a good gamer why
are you hating on century no no I'm just
what you think Smith he doesn't get mad
kills in pub G and fortnight to wait are
you series really good apparently Peter
says that he's like he would be a pro
player in any games you monster there
are people like that did we confirm top
50 Cal P I haven't message Canaan yet
I'm focused on the show he's messaging
me about as you play though I'm gonna
check him out let's get let's click
he'll be free huh so you can do the
investigative journalism man mark you
were trying hard to get out of here okay
a couple I have to go well we have to
get through all this because you were so
quick with the colors d mage three one
three smile in Z&D misconception quit
badger in me has have a sub Luke hungry
sub for three months Misha Matic the
Bauer champ champ champ gifted us up to
baby mochi capelet two two two two subs
a sill bright in Toya a to see k9
Illuminati tick sub mellow jello 100
reset for eight months holy moly son
wonder subbed H pinna zero seven eight
subbed knight of zero 18:02 craig
yogurts reset for four months cool us 33
subbed the card no sent bits the Quelch
inator
matcom reset for 2 months that said wow
Travie we made it baby much you give to
stuff to butter 0 3 0 baby we don't you
gives us up to XX hayes baby most you
give to this up to I likey likey sham
sham sham kept us up to Ethan and we're
all caught up mark any shoutouts and he
plugs I'm gonna do IRL with that's
join offline TV you just wanna know do
you really think I wouldn't be
complaining if it was 10:30 any other
night to be come on I can play no matter
well you pulled all the colors Kel be
anything you want to say at the end of
the show uh yeah I just want to give a
shout out mmm it's so hard to pick but
right now I think I probably have to
give a shout out to Goku I'm watching
DBZ Kai um I watched all of Dragonball
I'm like 30 episodes in now - DBZ Kai
watch 30 episodes this weekend and
Vegeta is pretty badass they're right
about to fight Frieza for the first time
we're like that Frieza just went to his
third form and Goku's still like healing
in the chamber but he's he's he's pretty
he's pretty awesome battle in 30
episodes and Kai holy that moves
fast compared to the original it's like
AI think is it really holy it's
like legit 30 episodes in Kai but it's
it's really good I'm really I'm really
enjoying it especially after going
through like a hundred and fifty three
episodes of Dragon Ball like you it
actually was worth it though you like a
lot of emotional attachment that you
build up over time so that like when the
when the big starts to go down
you're like I'm like very invested now
so but yeah shout out to Goku for being
for being a badass and a true emotional
leader for the group do you have
anything Travis you got any shoutouts
did a video where perks and reckless and
Peter I'll go eat seafood at boiling
crab it's really funny they're all
trying to figure out how to eat prawns
and crawfish and lobster and all the
stuff and then at the end there's like a
20-minute conversation about the state
of 80 carries between doublelift and
reckless and then like perks is chiming
in frequently to just laugh at them
because he thinks it's hilarious and I
will be trying to release that in the
next couple of days so to keep it out
for that we got about 36 subs over the
course of this
show so thank you so much for that if
you haven't yet and you have twitch
Prime you can hover over the twitch
window and you'll see a little add-on
pop up that tells you if it's up and you
can use that other than that thank you
so much to everyone who called in thank
you mark and Kelby for being here and
this has been hot line League episode 35
by the way there's a podcast list you
can find it all over the place